hey this is pressure Locker we'll start
out with this square from the bottom
left corner of the square I'll draw a
line segment to the interior with the
length of 12 from the endpoint of this
line segment I'll construct a
perpendicular going up and to the left
with the length of 3 from the endpoint
of this line segment I'll construct
another perpendicular that connects to
the upper right hand corner of the
square and this line segment has a
length of dyeing the question is from
the given information what is X the
length of the squares side can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution so before I
present the approach that eventually led
me to the answer I want to go over some
of the approaches that did not work for
me I first considered the right
triangles in the interior of the square
while I could solve for the areas of
these triangles and the hypotenuse of
these triangles this didn't lead me
directly to the length of the square
side I then tried to work out the
problem using coordinate geometry but in
spite of trying a few equations I still
wasn't able to solve for X so then it
struck me in the third approach I took
to this problem I imagined focusing on
just the inside line segments in the
interior of the square I wanted to
figure out the distance from end to end
so I considered what would happen if I
rotated the figure so it'd be easier to
analyze then it struck me I connected
the endpoints of these line segments and
then I realized we basically have one
large right triangle
I can move the length of nine down to
form one leg of this right triangle and
then I can move the length of three over
to create another leg of this right
triangle so we can then solve for the
distance using the Pythagorean theorem
we have one leg of the triangle that's
12 plus 9 or 21 and another leg which is
3 so the length of the hypotenuse is the
square root of 21 squared plus 3 squared
this becomes a square root of 450 which
is also equal to the square root of 225
times 2 which then becomes 15 times the
square root of 2 so now let's take this
information and get back to the original
diagram recreate our line segments on
interior of the square and then we'll
rotate them so that we have the distance
from one corner of the square to the
other corner of the square we know the
diagonal of the square is 15 square root
of 2 that's what we calculated and now
we also know that the diagonal of square
is x times the square root of 2 this is
because the diagnol of the square is the
hypotenuse of a right triangle with two
legs that are each X so we can set 15
square root of 2 to be x times the
square root of 2 and we can solve that X
is equal to 15 and that's our answer so
it took a little bit of work to figure
out what the length of the square side
is and sometimes in these problems you
have to approach them in more than one
attempt in this problem it took me three
attempts before I could solve it did you
figure out this problem and did you come
up with another solution thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch from my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Walker and if you liked this video
please check out my books there are
links in
video-description